Update RELEASES.md for 1.48.0 (#78364)
rust-lang/rust: RELEASES.md

Version 1.48.0 (2020-11-19)
==========================

Language
--------

- [The `unsafe` keyword is now syntactically permitted on modules.][75857] This
  is still rejected *semantically*, but can now be parsed by procedural macros.

Compiler
--------

> - [Stabilised the `-C link=<yes|no>`][76158] Which tells `rustc` whether to link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Stabilised the `-C link-self-contained=<yes|no>`][76158] Which tells `rustc` whether to link
```

> - [Stabilised the `-C link-self-contained=<yes|no>`][76158] Which tells `rustc` whether to link

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Stabilised the `-C link-self-contained=<yes|no>`.][76158] This tells `rustc` whether to link
```

>   its own libraries or to rely on a external linker. (supported only on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  its own C runtime and libraries or to rely on a external linker to find them. (supported only on
```

>   its own C runtime and libraries or to rely on a external linker to find them. (supported only on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  its own C runtime and libraries or to rely on a external linker to find them. (Supported only on
```

  `windows-gnu`, `linux-musl`, and `wasi` platforms.)
- [You can now use `-C target-feature=+crt-static` on `linux-gnu` targets.][77386]

> - [Added tier 2\* support for  `aarch64-unknown-linux-musl`.][76420]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Added tier 2\* support for `aarch64-unknown-linux-musl`.][76420]
```

\* Refer to Rust's [platform support page][forge-platform-support] for more
information on Rust's tiered platform support.

Libraries
---------
- [`io::Write` is now implemented for `&ChildStdin` `&Sink`, `&Stdout`,
  and `&Stderr`.][76275]

> - [All arrays now implement `TryFrom<Vec<T>>`.][76310]

Reviewer 4: I read this as expanding the set from length <= 32 to all, but it looks like it's just all arrays... I would be interested if you have thoughts on how to clarify that, but ultimately I don't think it's important so fine to just resolve.

- [The `matches!` macro now supports having a trailing comma.][74880]
- [`Vec<A>` now implements `PartialEq<[B]>` where `A: PartialEq<B>`.][74194]

> - [Nearly all of `Cell`'s panicking functions now use the `#[track_caller]`

Reviewer 4: Which ones did we miss (it would be good to at least add it on master now)? Also, it looks like the PR linked here modifies RefCell, not Cell, which doesn't panic.

  attribute.][77055]

Stabilized APIs
---------------
- [`slice::as_ptr_range`]
- [`slice::as_mut_ptr_range`]
- [`VecDeque::make_contiguous`]
- [`future::pending`]
- [`future::ready`]

The following previously stable methods are now `const fn`'s:

- [`Option::is_some`]
- [`Option::is_none`]
- [`Option::as_ref`]
- [`Result::is_ok`]
- [`Result::is_err`]
- [`Result::as_ref`]
- [`Ordering::reverse`]
- [`Ordering::then`]

Cargo
-----

Misc

> ----

Reviewer 5: Would it make sense to split this into `Rustdoc` and `Rustup`?

> - [You can now link to different items in `rustdoc` using the intra-doc link

Reviewer 5: 🎉 🎉 🎉

> - [You can now link to different items in `rustdoc` using the intra-doc link

Reviewer 2: I feel like saying "different items" is a bit confusing:

```suggestion
- [You can now link to items in `rustdoc` using the intra-doc link
```

>   syntax.][74430] E.g. ``/// Uses [`std::future`] `` will automatically generate

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  syntax.][74430] E.g. ``/// Uses [`std::future`]`` will automatically generate
```

  a link to `std::future`'s documentation. See ["Linking to items by
  name"][intradoc-links] for more information.
- [You can now specify `#[doc(alias = "<alias>")]` on items to add search aliases
  when searching through `rustdoc`'s UI.][75740]
- [You can now use `rustup install <major>.<minor>` to specify installing the

>   latest availeble patch of that minor version of the toolchain.][76107] E.g.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  latest available patch of that minor version of the toolchain.][76107] E.g.
```

>   latest available patch of that minor version of the toolchain.][76107] E.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  latest available patch of the specified minor version of the toolchain.][76107] E.g.
```

  `rustup install 1.45` would install `1.45.2`, and `1.46` would install `1.46.0`.

Compatibility Notes
-------------------
- [`const fn`s are now implicitly promoted to `const`.][75502] Meaning that it

>   will only warn if your code fails `const` evaluation, and not produce an error.

Reviewer 4: I think this isn't quite right -- what has changed is that const fn will no longer get implicitly promoted, I think? i.e., `&foo()` where foo is a const fn and the type is requested at `&'static T` will no longer compile on beta.

cc @rust-lang/wg-const-eval is there a succinct summary we could include here? Maybe we can get someone to put together a short inside rust blog post we can link to here?

Reviewer 7: Yeah that description does not seem to have much to do with what the PR does.

A short summary could be something like: promotion of references to `'static` lifetime inside `const fn` now follows the same rules as inside `fn`; in particular, `&foo()` will not be promoted to `'static` lifetime any more inside `const fn`.

This is a bugfix, we should never have done this to begin with. It is part of an ongoing effort to fix promotion, and then to restrict it a bit further to make it less painful throughout the compiler (see https://github.com/rust-lang/const-eval/issues/53).

- [Associated type bindings on trait objects are now verified to meet the bounds
  declared on the trait when checking that they implement the trait.][27675]

> - [When traits bounds on associated types or opaque types are ambiguous the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [When trait bounds on associated types or opaque types are ambiguous, the
```

  compiler no longer makes an arbitrary choice on which bound to use.][54121]

> - [Fixed recursive nonterminals not being expended in macros during

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Fixed recursive nonterminals not being expanded in macros during
```

  pretty-print/reparse check.][77153] This may cause errors if your macro wasn't
  correctly handling recursive nonterminal tokens.

> - [`&mut` references to non zero-sized types are not longer promoted.][75585]

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [`&mut` references to non zero-sized types are no longer promoted.][75585]
```

[76275]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76275/
[76310]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76310/
[76420]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76420/
[76107]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76107/
[76158]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/76158/
[75857]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/75857/
[75585]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/75585/
[75740]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/75740/
[75502]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/75502/
[74880]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/74880/
[74922]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/74922/
[74430]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/74430/
[74194]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/74194/
[73461]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/73461/
[73166]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/73166/
[intradoc-links]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustdoc/linking-to-items-by-name.html
[`Option::is_some`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html#method.is_some
[`Option::is_none`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html#method.is_none
[`Option::as_ref`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/option/enum.Option.html#method.as_ref

> [`Result::is_ok`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/result/enum.Result.html#method.is_ok

Reviewer 5: Wow, this really makes me wish we had https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/77974 ...

Reviewer 8: This isn't a file consumed by rustdoc though -- it needs to be standard markdown to be rendered by GitHub.

Author: Yeah, though if someone wrote a intradoc link vim macro that would be great. 🙂

  promoted to `'static` lifetime any more inside `const fn`s.
- [Associated type bindings on trait objects are now verified to meet the bounds
  declared on the trait when checking that they implement the trait.][27675]
- [When trait bounds on associated types or opaque types are ambiguous, the
  compiler no longer makes an arbitrary choice on which bound to use.][54121]
- [Fixed recursive nonterminals not being expanded in macros during
  pretty-print/reparse check.][77153] This may cause errors if your macro wasn't
  correctly handling recursive nonterminal tokens.
- [`&mut` references to non zero-sized types are no longer promoted.][75585]
- [`rustc` will now warn if you use attributes like `#[link_name]` or `#[cold]`
  in places where they have no effect.][73461]
- [Updated `_mm256_extract_epi8` and `_mm256_extract_epi16` signatures in
  `arch::{x86, x86_64}` to return `i32` to match the vendor signatures.][73166]
- [`mem::uninitialized` will now panic if any inner types inside a struct or enum
  disallow zero-initialization.][71274]
- [`#[target_feature]` will now error if used in a place where it has no effect.][78143]

> - [Foreign exceptions are now caught by `catch_unwind` and will cause an abort.][70212]

Reviewer 4: We should note that this is still UB, and so the exact behavior here is not a stable guarantee. This is noted in the docs on catch_unwind (https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/panic/fn.catch_unwind.html) but maybe rephrasing this to say something like:

`Foreign exceptions are now caught by catch_unwind and will cause an abort, but doing so is still UB. See [docs] for more details.`

Reviewer 7: Maybe we should phrase it as UB detection then:
```
Undefined Behavior due to foreign exceptions in `catch_unwind` is now detected and will cause an abort (but this detection is not guaranteed, i.e., this is still considered UB)
```

  Note: If you're using cargo you must explicitly pass the `--target` flag.
- [Added tier 2\* support for `aarch64-unknown-linux-musl`.][76420]

\* Refer to Rust's [platform support page][forge-platform-support] for more
information on Rust's tiered platform support.

Libraries
---------
- [`io::Write` is now implemented for `&ChildStdin` `&Sink`, `&Stdout`,
  and `&Stderr`.][76275]
- [All arrays of any length now implement `TryFrom<Vec<T>>`.][76310]
- [The `matches!` macro now supports having a trailing comma.][74880]
- [`Vec<A>` now implements `PartialEq<[B]>` where `A: PartialEq<B>`.][74194]
- [The `RefCell::{replace, replace_with, clone}` methods now all use `#[track_caller]`.][77055]

Stabilized APIs
---------------
- [`slice::as_ptr_range`]
- [`slice::as_mut_ptr_range`]
- [`VecDeque::make_contiguous`]
- [`future::pending`]
- [`future::ready`]

The following previously stable methods are now `const fn`'s:

- [`Option::is_some`]
- [`Option::is_none`]
- [`Option::as_ref`]
- [`Result::is_ok`]
- [`Result::is_err`]
- [`Result::as_ref`]
- [`Ordering::reverse`]
- [`Ordering::then`]

Cargo
-----

Rustdoc
-------

> - [You can now link to items in `rustdoc` using the intra-doc link
>   syntax.][74430] E.g. ``/// Uses [`std::future`]`` will automatically generate
>   a link to `std::future`'s documentation. See ["Linking to items by
>   name"][intradoc-links] for more information.

Reviewer 5: I was thinking it might be nice to say _why_ this is such a big deal.

````suggestion
- [You can now link to items in `rustdoc` using the intra-doc link
  syntax.][74430] Before, you would have to know exactly how rustdoc generated its URLs:
  
  ```rust
/// [`Send`] is in the standard library.
  
/// [`Send`]: ../std/marker/trait.Send.html
  
  Now, you can now write:
  ```rust
  /// [`Send`] is in the standard library
  ```
  to automatically generate a link to `Send`'s documentation. Rustdoc will give a warning if the link fails to resolve, which means in most cases you no longer need an external tool to ensure your documentation has no broken links.

See ["Linking to items by name"][intradoc-links] for more information.
````

Reviewer 4: I think this is too long for the release notes, but I expect similar text (perhaps a bit more) in the blog post. Ultimately I see the release notes as more of an index or table of contents.
